Now first and foremost, I want to talk about color theory.
This is so fundamental to not just digital design, but in fact design everywhere. Because of our retinas
innate ability to differentiate different frequencies of light waves, we're able to see different colors.
Of course, you know, you can get very philosophical about this whether it's my version of red is the same
as your version of red but it's well known that certain frequencies i.e. certain colors or certain shades
evokes different sentiments in people that are pretty much uniform.
So let's have a look at some of the various moods that are attributed to different colors and how you
can use different colors to achieve different ends.
So the first one we're going to look at is red and this is traditionally associated with love, energy,
intensity.
So you end up seeing a lot of car adverts that used red as one of their primary colors in the color
palette.
And the reason is it's meant to be exciting, it's meant to be fast and it conveys the intensity that
people look for in fast cars.
And also when you're looking at ads that are trying to sell you something relating to love, you see the
color red being used predominantly in that color palette.
So I think it's really helpful analyzing adverts because these are essentially really well-thought out
experiments in persuasion and manipulating human psychology.
Advertising agencies are essentially really really good at using their print ads or they're moving image
ads to persuade us to buy certain things. And they do that through different ways either by evoking certain
emotions within us or by suggesting to us the idea that we could be as happy and successful as the people
in the adverts
if only we just bought whatever it is that they were selling to us.
So I'll leave the ethics and laws aside for the philosophers,
but in terms of studying what works in design, adverts are really helpful for and helping us identify
some of those key factors.
So the next time that you see an ad try to see what techniques they're using or which design principles
they're using to either make their design look beautiful or try and see what emotion they're trying
to evoke in you.
So red sells to people on this idea of intensity, of love, of excitement.
Now let's look at the next color palette, yellow. And yellow tends to be used for things that try to convey
joy, happiness, intellect and it's also an incredibly attention grabbing column which is perhaps why if
you guys remember this advert made the news in the UK certainly about this protein shake company.
Now of course there's a lot of discussion regarding the message of this advert
but that's for somebody else to discuss. What I'm interested in is why did this particular ad attract
so many people's attention
and in the end criticism when there are so many other adverts that essentially have the same message?
And I believe part of that is their choice of color palette. The use of this bright shade of yellow is
incredibly attention grabbing.
It's like taking a huge fluorescent highlighter and highlighting the whole ad.
Now I remember seeing them when I was walking around in the London underground system and it was impossible
to not see it because of how attention grabbing that color is.
But remember, if you have an app with a background that is this kind of bright yellow because the color
is so intense,
people won't be able to stare at it for a very long time and you will get attention fatigue.
So this is something that is probably better used for attention grabbing purposes, so say for your app
icon designs or for your apps screenshot designs that go up on the App Store so that when that user
is scrolling through the App Store that your particular app grabs their attention and becomes the one
that they download.
In terms of the actual design for your app for the background or etc. this particular shade of yellow
is probably a bit too intense.
And then we've got various shades of green which tend to convey ideas of freshness, safety, growth.
So you see a lot of food related services using this in that branding
for example Amazonfresh. What else conveys freshness more than this grassy green color palette?
And it's also probably why all of these food bloggers managed convince millions of people into this green
juice craze.
I mean if you look at the thing it seems to be the very emblem of life and freshness itself even though
you might be like me and not much of a convert because it tastes absolutely gross, but you can see through
its color palette why it would appeal to health conscious people.
So choosing a color palette is not just about you know advertising and attention grabbing,
it's also about selling your product and appealing to certain instincts or desires that people have.
Next we're going to talk about blue which has traditionally always been about stability, trust, serenity.
And you know in fact when you think about anything that's related to medical or medicine or health, it
tends to be using a blue color palette.
So here's a tip that you might expect
from a design class.
But the next time that you go to a job interview, if you wanted to instantly come across as more trustworthy,
the tip from the designers is to wear a blue shirt. Without speaking, the color already speaks for you
and conveys this idea of stability and trust.
I mean just look at this guy.
I would give him a job even though he doesn't even have a face.
So equally when you're making a design that needs people to have faith and trust in you, then blue is
a good choice.
And finally we've got purple which is meant to evoke ideas of royalty, wealth, femininity.
So this is pretty much the color of choice for a lot of payday loan companies and especially those are
targeting women for some reason.
But actually it's a beautiful color palette and I wish that more people would use it for projects other
than payday loans.
So the next time that you're designing an app, the first thing to think about is what emotions them what
ideas are you trying to convey in the user and pick a color palette accordingly.